## CIP 0075

<pre>
  CIP: CIP 0075
  Title:  Add Zodia as an SV of Weight 4.5
  Author: Anoosh Arevshatian
  Status: Draft  
  Type:  Governance
  Created: 2025-08-19
  Approved: TBD
  License: CC0-1.0
</pre>

## Abstract:

* Add Zodia Custody as a Super Validator with provisional Weight 4.5 as milestones and deliverables are reached over a 6 month period of time as proposed below
Zodia Custody commits to:
    1) Enhance network value through integration of its product suite with Canton, bringing regulated custody, settlement, connectivity and tri-party collateral services to the network
    2) Support development of Canton by providing practical feedback and suggestions on documentation, requirements and use cases
 
## About Applicant:

* Zodia Custody is the institution-first digital asset custodian and custody infrastructure platform backed by Standard Chartered, Northern Trust, SBI Holdings, National Australia Bank, and Emirates NBD. 

* Sitting at the intersection between traditional finance and digital asset-natives, Zodia has adopted a compliance and security-first approach, enabling cryptographically enforced instructions and transaction signing within seconds.
* The Group has physical presence in the UK, EU, Singapore, Hong Kong, Australia, UAE (ADGM & VARA), Japan and serves clients globally.
* Through the combination of the products below, Zodia Custody enables institutional investors around the globe to realise the full potential of the digital assets future – simply, safely, and without compromise.

Product Pillars:
* HOLD: Custody; Sub-Custody
* EARN: Treasury, Wealth Mgmt, Rewards
* TRADE: Off-Venue Net Settlement,  Tri Party Collateral Agency
* BUILD: Token issuance; Custody / Prime Technology


Please find the following detailed sections in Appendix:
* Appendix I – Motivation
* Appendix II – Why Zodia?
* Appendix III – Zodia’s Scope of Work

| Deliverable | Acceptance Criteria | Deadline | Weight Earned |
|-------------|---------------------|----------|---------------|
| **Product Integration: Introducing New Assets and Mobilizing Assets on Canton** | **Token Standard Support - Acceleration Bonus:** <br><br> Integrate tokens issued with Canton’s token standard into Zodia’s custody product suite, including Zodia Rewards | +45 days from CIP approval | 0.5 |
|  | **Off-Venue Settlement Integration:** <br><br> Integrate the Canton network within Zodia Interchange, the Settlement Solution, allowing users to trade on-chain whilst assets are held with Zodia. | +180 days from CIP approval <br><br> +270 days from CIP approval | 1 (if delivered in 180 days) <br><br> 0.5 (half-weight if delivered in 270 days) |
|  | **Intercustodian Net Settlement:** <br><br> Enable inter-custodian net settlement on Canton network with at least one custodian | +180 days from CIP approval | 0.5 |
|  | **Tri-Party Collateral Mgmt Solution:** <br><br> Build Tri-Party Collateral management solution on Canton network | +180 days from CIP approval <br><br> +270 days from CIP approval | 1 (if delivered in 180 days) <br><br> 0.5 (half-weight if delivered in 270 days) |
| **Volume-based Throughput Incentives** | **New Token Support:** <br><br> Using the Canton Token Standard, support issuance of new assets not already on the Canton network, totalling >$100M USD equivalent value | +180 days from CIP approval | 0.5 |
|  | **Interchange Volumes:** <br><br> >$250M of trades settled via Zodia Interchange on Canton network within Zodia and other connected custodian(s) | +180 days from product integration | 0.5 |
|  | **Collateral Mgmt. Volumes:** <br><br> >$250M of collateral represented and managed via the Canton Network on Zodia’s Tri Party Collateral Mgmt application | +180 days from product integration | 0.5 |
| **Education, Events** | By the deadline: <br><br> • A multi-functional research paper amplifying practical use cases of Canton for Zodia’s clients (e.g. settlement, collateral mgmt) <br> • Social media amplification <br> • Joint event | +90 days from CIP approval | 0 |
| **Applications** | Zodia to support existing applications and build a minimum of 2 applications used by more than 20 participants | +180 days from CIP approval | 0 |


## SV Reward Mechanics: 
* An `extraBeneficiary` PartyID associated with the ‘escrowed’ Super Validator will be setup by the GSF with an SV Weight at the maximum earnable weight. This will not include the potential "First to Production" or "Second to Production" bonus weights. 
    * The Applicant is responsible for coordinating the process of setting up the escrowed weights with the GSF and the operator of the GSF SV node.
    * The Applicant is responsible for all costs associated with the operation of the escrow SV
    * The escrow SV will NOT mint rewards on a block by block basis
    * All escrow SV rewards will go to the Unclaimed Rewards pool
* ⅔ of the Super Validator Operators will update their configurations to allow GSF to host the full weight to be earned by the given Super Validator
* Applicant is required to present proof of successful completed milestones to the Tokenomics Working Group
    * Applicant is required to present a calculation for number of Canton Coin it should earn for meeting the requirements of the milestone
* If the Tokenomics Working Group agrees the milestone has been met and agrees with the calculation, an announcement will be sent via the Tokenomics-Announce mailing List
    * The GSF will update the `extraBeneficiary` to an active PartyID controlled by that Super Validator. 
    * ⅔ of Super Validator Operators will then assign a portion of the Unclaimed Rewards to be minted by the Applicant’s Validator, based on the calculation approved by the Tokenomics working group.
   
* If any milestones and associated rewards are not achieved by the deadline
    * Applicant will be notified they have not met a deliverable by the GSF 
    * Remaining SV Weight assigned to the `extraBeneficiary` SV will be removed from the GSF node configuration, and the total SV weight of the GSF SV node will be reduced by the same amount by a vote of the Super Validators.
    * The Tokenomics Working Group will make a recommendation to the SVs on what to do with the Unclaimed Rewards 
* Applicant is subject to CIP-0045 : SV Operating Requirements
    * If, at any time, the Applicant has been rewarded SV Weight > 2.5, they are required to operate their SV within 6 months of crossing that Weight. This SV node will join the network with an SV weight of zero (0) and may add weights as the SV completes the milestones listed in this CIP.


## Copyright

* This CIP is licensed under CC0-1.0: [Creative Commons CC0 1.0 Universal](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).

## Changelog
s
* **2025-08-19:** Initial draft of the proposal.



