# CIP 0039

## Summary

- Add Copper Clearloop as a Tier3 SV (Weight 1)
- Copper Clearloop commits to integrate Canton Coin and assets on the Canton Network with their Clearloop off-exchange settlement solution.

## Motivation

- Copper Clearloop pioneered the off-exchange-settlement market.
- Clearloop support for Canton means that any derivatives exchange connected to Clearloop can receive assets in Canton for IM and VM.
- Collateral in the Canton Network is a highly differentiated use case. Participants can move and hold collateral privately to any user in the Canton Network. Clearloop supporting Canton takes a meaningful step towards Canton becoming the collateral network.

## About Copper Clearloop

- **Mitigate counterparty and insolvency risk.**
- **Off-exchange settlement**: Settlements occur between the client and the exchange on the Copper infrastructure, so funds never leave Copper’s custody.
- **Bankruptcy remote**: To mitigate your insolvency risk against Copper, we have established a dedicated account structure for ClearLoop protected by an English Law Trust.
- **Collateral monitoring**: Copper's risk team ensures that sufficient collateral is maintained by the exchange at Copper to satisfy settlement obligations arising from client trading activity.

## Proposed Changes

- Increase the GSF’s minting weight +1 and assign to Copper Clearloop.
- Copper will take over operations of their own SV no later than 6 months after the approval of this CIP unless the SV pool prevents expansion to accommodate a new operator in that time frame.
