# CIP 0040

## Summary

- Add Deribit as a Tier3 SV (Weight 1)
- Deribit commits to integrate Canton into their custody capability, enabling assets of their choosing in the Canton Network to be posted as IM and VM at Deribit.

## Motivation

- Deribit has over 80% market share for crypto options globally.
- Collateral in the Canton Network is a highly differentiated use case. Participants can move and hold collateral privately to any user in the Canton Network. Deribit supporting Canton gives high-quality collateral in the Canton Network a meaningful destination and increases the utility of these assets.

## About Deribit

- Deribit is an answer to those searching for a professional-grade cryptocurrency derivatives platform. Our goal was to create an efficient and fair marketplace that could connect traders of all backgrounds and trading styles. High matching engine capacity, low latency, advanced risk management, and high liquidity make Deribit a unique player in the market.
- Deribit started with the ambition of creating the first cryptocurrency options exchange in the world. Even though it was a highly challenging task, in slightly more than two years, the team finished working on system development. In June of 2016, Deribit was officially launched.
- Deribit has a conditional Virtual Asset Service Provider (VASP) license to operate under VARA in the UAE and is moving its headquarters to Dubai while they finalize the process of becoming fully licensed.
- Currently, our customers can trade perpetual, futures, and options contracts. Deribit is growing rapidly and is among the top exchanges providing crypto futures and perpetual contract trading. Furthermore, Deribit remains the leading exchange offering European-style cash-settled crypto options and continues to set the standard for the industry.

## Proposed Changes

- Increase the GSF’s minting weight +1 and assign to Deribit.
- Deribit will take over operations of their own SV no later than 6 months after the approval of this CIP unless the SV pool prevents expansion to accommodate a new operator in that time frame.
