## CIP 0074

<pre>
  CIP: CIP 0074
  Title:  Add BitGo as an SV of Weight 5
  Author: Eric Saraniecki
    Jacob McCrum
  Status: Draft  
  Type:  Governance
  Created: 2025-08-15
  Approved: TBD
  License: CC0-1.0
</pre>

## Abstract:

* Add BitGo as an SV of Weight 5

## About Applicant:

BitGo is the leading infrastructure provider of digital asset solutions, delivering custody, wallets, staking, trading, financing, and settlement services from regulated cold storage. Since our founding in 2013, we have focused on enabling our clients to securely navigate the digital asset space. With a large global presence through multiple regulated entities, BitGo serves thousands of institutions, including many of the industry's top brands, exchanges, and platforms, as well as millions of retail investors worldwide. As the operational backbone of the digital economy, BitGo handles a significant portion of Bitcoin network transactions and is the largest independent digital asset custodian, and staking provider, in the world.

* Over 2000 institutional clients across more than 90 countries.
* Provides services to over 100 crypto exchanges globally.
* Support for over 1200 coins and tokens.


## Deliverables for full SV Reward:

| Deliverable | Acceptance Criteria | Deadline | Weight Earned |
|-------------|---------------------|----------|---------------|
| **BitGo Custody Support for Canton Token Standard** | • BitGo customers can custody any asset on the Canton Network that adheres to the Canton Token Standard | +180 Days from CIP Approval | 1 |
| **Acceleration Bonus** | +0 Bonus if delivered +180 Days from SV CIP Approval <br><br> +2 Bonus if delivered +60 Days from SV CIP Approval <br><br> Linear sliding scale between +60 and +180 days <br><br> Example: If delivered in +120 days, BitGo is awarded +1 SV Weight <br><br> • At least one BitGo customer must be live, having completed a transaction on MainNet | +180 Days from CIP Approval | Max 2 |
| **Adoption Bonus** | • Driving adoption of Canton with existing customers of BitGo | +180 Days from Custody Support going live | +0.5 per $1.5b of assets transferred up to a maximum of +2 |


## SV Reward Mechanics: 
* An `extraBeneficiary` PartyID associated with the ‘escrowed’ Super Validator will be setup by the GSF with an SV Weight at the maximum earnable weight. This will not include the potential "First to Production" or "Second to Production" bonus weights. 
    * The Applicant is responsible for coordinating the process of setting up the escrowed weights with the GSF and the operator of the GSF SV node.
    * The Applicant is responsible for all costs associated with the operation of the escrow SV
    * The escrow SV will NOT mint rewards on a block by block basis
    * All escrow SV rewards will go to the Unclaimed Rewards pool
* ⅔ of the Super Validator Operators will update their configurations to allow GSF to host the full weight to be earned by the given Super Validator
* Applicant is required to present proof of successful completed milestones to the Tokenomics Working Group
    * Applicant is required to present a calculation for number of Canton Coin it should earn for meeting the requirements of the milestone
* If the Tokenomics Working Group agrees the milestone has been met and agrees with the calculation, an announcement will be sent via the Tokenomics-Announce mailing List
    * The GSF will update the `extraBeneficiary` to an active PartyID controlled by that Super Validator. 
    * ⅔ of Super Validator Operators will then assign a portion of the Unclaimed Rewards to be minted by the Applicant’s Validator, based on the calculation approved by the Tokenomics working group.
   
* If any milestones and associated rewards are not achieved by the deadline
    * Applicant will be notified they have not met a deliverable by the GSF 
    * Remaining SV Weight assigned to the `extraBeneficiary` SV will be removed from the GSF node configuration, and the total SV weight of the GSF SV node will be reduced by the same amount by a vote of the Super Validators.
    * The Tokenomics Working Group will make a recommendation to the SVs on what to do with the Unclaimed Rewards 
* Applicant is subject to CIP-0045 : SV Operating Requirements
    * If, at any time, the Applicant has been rewarded SV Weight > 2.5, they are required to operate their SV within 6 months of crossing that Weight. This SV node will join the network with an SV weight of zero (0) and may add weights as the SV completes the milestones listed in this CIP.


## Copyright

* This CIP is licensed under CC0-1.0: [Creative Commons CC0 1.0 Universal](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).

## Changelog
s
* **2025-08-15:** Initial draft of the proposal.




