## CIP 0072

<pre>
  CIP: CIP 0072
  Title:  Add Fireblocks as an SV of Weight 5
  Author: Eric Saraniecki
  Status: Approved  
  Type:  Governance
  Created: 2025-07-30
  Approved: 2025-08-11
  License: CC0-1.0
</pre>

## Abstract:

* Add Fireblocks as an SV of Weight 5

## About Applicant:

The world of digital assets is accelerating in speed, magnitude, and complexity, opening the door to new ways for leveraging the blockchain. Fireblocks’ platform and network provide the simplest and most secure way for companies to work with digital assets and is trusted by some of the largest financial institutions, banks, globally-recognized brands, and Web3 companies in the world, including BNY Mellon, BNP Paribas, ANZ Bank, Revolut, and thousands more.
Stats:
* \> 2000 Customers
* \> $10 trillion in transactions
* \> 300m wallets secured 


## Deliverables for full SV Reward:

| Deliverable | Acceptance Criteria | Deadline | Weight Earned |
|-------------|---------------------|----------|---------------|
| Fireblocks wallet support for Canton Token Standard | • Fireblocks customers can self custody any asset on the Canton Network that adheres to the Canton Token Standard | + 180 Days from CIP Approval | 1 |
| Acceleration Bonus |  +0 Bonus if delivered +180 Days from SV CIP Approval <br> <br>   +2 Bonus if delivered +60 Days from SV CIP Approval <br> <br>  Linear sliding scale between +60 and +180 days  <br>  <br> Example: If delivered in +120 days, Fireblocks is awarded +1 SV Weight <br> <br> • At least one Fireblocks customer must be live, having completed a transaction on MainNet| + 180 Days from CIP Approval| Max 2 |
| Adoption Bonus| • Driving adoption of Canton with existing customers of Fireblocks  | + 180 Days from Wallet Support going live | + 0.5 per $1.5b of assets transferred up to a maximum of +2 |

## SV Reward Mechanics: 
* An `extraBeneficiary` PartyID associated with the ‘escrowed’ Super Validator will be setup by the GSF with an SV Weight at the maximum earnable weight. This will not include the potential "First to Production" or "Second to Production" bonus weights. 
    * The Applicant is responsible for coordinating the process of setting up the escrowed weights with the GSF and the operator of the GSF SV node.
    * The Applicant is responsible for all costs associated with the operation of the escrow SV
    * The escrow SV will NOT mint rewards on a block by block basis
    * All escrow SV rewards will go to the Unclaimed Rewards pool
* ⅔ of the Super Validator Operators will update their configurations to allow GSF to host the full weight to be earned by the given Super Validator
* Applicant is required to present proof of successful completed milestones to the Tokenomics Working Group
    * Applicant is required to present a calculation for number of Canton Coin it should earn for meeting the requirements of the milestone
* If the Tokenomics Working Group agrees the milestone has been met and agrees with the calculation, an announcement will be sent via the Tokenomics-Announce mailing List
    * The GSF will update the `extraBeneficiary` to an active PartyID controlled by that Super Validator. 
    * ⅔ of Super Validator Operators will then assign a portion of the Unclaimed Rewards to be minted by the Applicant’s Validator, based on the calculation approved by the Tokenomics working group.
   
* If any milestones and associated rewards are not achieved by the deadline
    * Applicant will be notified they have not met a deliverable by the GSF 
    * Remaining SV Weight assigned to the `extraBeneficiary` SV will be removed from the GSF node configuration, and the total SV weight of the GSF SV node will be reduced by the same amount by a vote of the Super Validators.
    * The Tokenomics Working Group will make a recommendation to the SVs on what to do with the Unclaimed Rewards 
* Applicant is subject to CIP-0045 : SV Operating Requirements
    * If, at any time, the Applicant has been rewarded SV Weight > 2.5, they are required to operate their SV within 6 months of crossing that Weight. This SV node will join the network with an SV weight of zero (0) and may add weights as the SV completes the milestones listed in this CIP.


## Copyright

* This CIP is licensed under CC0-1.0: [Creative Commons CC0 1.0 Universal](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).

## Changelog
s
* **2025-07-30:** Initial draft of the proposal.
* **2025-08-11:** Approved CIP.



