# CIP 0036

## Summary

- Add Kiln as a Tier3 SV (Weight 1)
- Kiln commits to support Canton in their Validator as a Service product offering no later than 6 months after the approval of this CIP.

## Motivation

- Accessing the Canton Network currently requires running one (or many) Validators.
- Few entities are skilled enough and/or desire to run their own Validators.
- The uptime of a Validator is critical in Canton as your Validator is part of the validation consensus protocol and is best served by a professional organization with a strong history of uptime.
- The Canton Network is upgrading regularly and node operators benefit from investing in automation and the productization of the node operations—most do not have the time, desire, or capabilities to do this themselves.
- Kiln has an incredible set of customers, including a number of the Canton Network’s earliest supporters, and Kiln can help expand the user footprint of the Network by making it easier to distribute nodes and educating their customers about Canton.

## About Kiln

- Kiln is the leading digital asset rewards management platform, enabling institutional customers to earn rewards on their digital assets, or to whitelabel earning functionality into their products. Our platform is API-first and enables fully automated validators, rewards, and data and commission management.
- With over $8.6 billion in crypto assets being programmatically staked, Kiln has a particularly strong track record on Ethereum as we run about 4% of the network; this includes 43,000+ active validators with 0 slashing events.
- The team is made up of over 60 ecosystem enthusiasts formerly at Google, Circle, Ledger, Chainalysis, and other leading technology and cryptocurrency companies.

## Proposed Changes

- Increase the GSF’s minting weight +1 and assign to Kiln.
- Kiln will take over operations of their own SV no later than 6 months after the approval of this CIP unless the SV pool prevents expansion to accommodate a new operator in that time frame.
